---
author: nearwalden@gmail.com
date: 2006-01-02 15:49:48+00:00
draft: false
title: HDTV, Tivo
type: post
url: /2006/01/02/hdtv-tivo/
categories:
- posts
---

"Santa" brought us a new 50" Sony projection HDTV for Christmas, which raised the question of where to get HD content from.  





We've been a DirecTV customer for about 5 years now, and have had no issues other than a few outages during big snow storms.  We use a Tivo receiver model, and are totally hooked on Tivo.  However, the HD options for DirecTV were not very attractive:  buy a new HD receiver with Tivo for $300 or more, pay more per month, and only get a couple of channels in HD, but not including our local channels.





The good news is that this would give us HD Tivo, but DirecTV is dropping Tivo as a partner, so who knows what the long-term prospects are.  Also, DirecTV doesn't support all of the Tivo features, requiring some low-level hacking.  I've done this on our current one, but it takes work for every upgrade, and can be a hassle.  The other thing is that we really use the Tivo for kids shows, which aren't HD.





So I'm thinking of going to Comcast HD, and use a standard Tivo for awhile until the HD Tivo comes out.  We'll have Tivo and HD cable as separate inputs, and see how that works.





Final note:  even though we get awful reception from an antenna for standard Boston stations, we get great pickup of the digital versions of over-the-air stations.  Right now I'm watching the Patriots in 1080i HD.  Pretty good!  If you buy an HD TV, give your local stations a try with an antenna!





_Update:  We're getting such good reception from the antenna, we're rethinking what we want to do.  May wait a month or two and see what happens with HD Tivo in general…_









Technorati Tags:[hacking](//technorati.com/tag/hacking"), [tivo](//technorati.com/tag/tivo")











